                                                             Assignment 2

To : Zaki Shaheen
From: Muhammad Hassan Maqsood
Date:10-July-2015
Subject: Meeting with Coeus Solutions GmbH's COO

						
Introduction

The Purpose of writing this report is to give an overview of the session held between 5 freshly hired employees and the Ashan Naseem (COO) of the Coeus Solutions GmbH. In this session, newly hired employees were briefed about the company's ways of establishing relations with clients, business methodologies for staying in market, company’s way of earnings and revenue worth followed by a question/answer session at the end. Things that were discussed in this session comprises of the following agenda.

* Is the founder of organization who runs it or there is a board and leadership team who makes decision?

It was said that CEO Ali and the board members Ashan Naseem, Zaki Shaheen both are responsible for making the decisions. The CEO can make the decisions alone but they can be inquired in the board meeting.

* What type of clients Coeus works with ?

Coeus works with two types of clients that fall under these types of contracts:

Fixed Price Contract:

	In this contract, SDLC life cycle is properly being followed. Requirements are captured by the clients and then sign-off of requirements is done. Then design of the system is made and developed. This type of project is not given much attention as there is vulnerability of scope creep by the client that causes the delay in the final deliverables and payments by client.

Dedicated Development Contract: 

	In this type of contract, charging on a project is based on the man days required to complete the specific project. The core development of the project is done by company’s resources and is delivered up-till the deadline. Company provides the flexibility of working extra 2 man-days. These types of projects are given more priority as the payment date is known and fixed. 

* How Company captures its clients?

Coeus has signed a non-competitive partnership contract with Meta-Design, (a much bigger company in worth and resources in Germany, Berlin). Under this contract Meta-Design delegates the development part of the project to Coeus Solutions GmbH in Germany which further assigns the project to the Coeus Solutions Limited in Lahore Pakistan. The development is done by the resource team in Lahore Pakistan. PM in Berlin also manages the schedules, timelines and evaluates the progress on monthly basis.
 Coeus other partners are 3PC and HP. It also captures its clients by cold-calling and taking participation in networking events and bidding on paid-lance websites.

* Who are the competitors of Coeus in market?

As Coeus works in Germany’s market, the competitors have been arising because of open border policy of Germany in last year. The Ukrainian and Bulgarian companies can give challenge in bids in future.

* What are the gray areas that need to be improved?

The organizational culture needs to be improved by proper and extensive training of the employees. QA work needs to be improved more. In order to implement these changes company is deciding of hiring some industrial experts on each type of projects.

* What is the way of transferring of money?

Coeus office in Pakistan sends an invoice to its Germany’s office once the project gets completed. Then according to the invoice, the payment is transferred to the Standard Chartered Bank.

* What is company worth in today’s market?

According to the recent statistics company’s worth is about 3.5 million Euros.

Conclusion:

To sum up, Coeus follows the both decentralized and democratic policy in making decisions. Company focuses more on dedicative development projects rather than fixed price projects due to its less vulnerability and fixed payment dates. There are some areas that company is trying to improve like giving more attention the employees in trainings and bootcamps. Quality Assurance work is also being improved by hiring industrial QA experts. Coeus’s office in Pakistan is completely owned by the Coeus Solutions Gmbh in Germany which finalizes the bids on the projects and they get developed here in the Pakistan. Coeus has resource competition with companies like Confiz, TxLabs in Pakistan where as in Germany, Bulgarian and Ukranian companies can give competition in future. At the end, I will summarize by saying that up till now the way of company’s working with clients, earning money methods, business policies in both offices have been understood and I am looking forward to work with the company with passion and enthusiasm so that I can benefit to myself as well to the company.

